hey guys it's Brian with aquascape I'm
sitting at the Shedd Aquarium in
downtown Chicago you can see behind me
I've got the Sears Tower in front of me
we got Soldier Field home of the Chicago
Bears to the left of me we've got Lake
Michigan it's day one on a very much
anticipated project this project will
take us about ten days to finish up my
first order of business dig our
reservoir
here we are day five at the Shedd
Aquarium project we had a few setbacks
here early on in the project thankfully
here who Leon I guess
during our excavation of our large
10,000 gallon reservoir we not only
uncovered the storm sewer the sanitary
sewer but also the main electric feed
going to the facility as well as going
all the way down in the Grant Park
causes huge huge issues we had to shut
down for three weeks once we got back up
and running things are actually going
really smooth any high-quality project
requires high quality materials right
beside me here is the stone this is
what's given everything that look that
we're going after this is Missouri Moss
rock the key to all this from a design
perspective is keeping the stone in
scale with the project we have a massive
waterfall that's going in here so we
have some massive rocks a little bit of
a design tip when we're working with
these larger boulders is I always want
to over excavate so as you see we over
dig everything with our construction put
our liner in place then we place the
boulders so the boulders look good
we don't go off the excavation we want
to make the boulders look good first of
all then we just simply backfill our way
up around everything we've already
completed the one section to the west
and what we're doing is we're gonna wrap
around this waterfall we want to finish
the lower tier first then we're gonna
start working our way up the slope right
where I'm standing is gonna be the main
waterfalls we're talking a 10-foot wide
pourraient of water there's gonna be
crashing over these boulders this is a
key vantage point there everybody's
going to be coming in to see this water
feature and what we've designed into it
is a is a seating area right in this
area so when people want to come here to
the city a lot of visitors are coming
here we wanted to create a beautiful
vantage point in a a backdrop for
pictures so people could stand on the
patio but water falls behind them and
then behind that we have the whole
skyline of Chicago this is going to be
one awesome project day 256 project
complete
and all seriousness this did take a long
time but it looks spectacular I mean
just check out the waterfalls well what
happens whenever we're doing these
larger projects life happens literally
we ran into everything we hit high
voltage lines we hit sewer lines we have
old concrete structures buried
underground for 50-plus years a lot of
stuff happened here and that's the way
it works sometimes on some of these
larger projects then winter comes in and
we were shut down then spring comes in
with all the rains but here we are we're
able to wrap everything up and
everything looks absolutely awesome we
finally got all the electrical stuff
taken care of with our control panels we
have it set up on a timer system to go
off and on the whole idea with this
feature is again to promote
sustainability so less electrical
consumption and less usage of water the
reaction from the city and the public
has been tremendous every single time
I'm here there's a steady stream of
people literally stopping and taking
pictures and viewing the beautiful water
feature it may be a little bit rough
right now but as the landscaping matures
this will surely become a staple and a
landmark in the city of Chicago and
really the museum campus that we're
standing right in the middle of gets
millions of visitors per year from all
over the world what better way to expose
people to the water garden lifestyle
then actually showing them what can be
done right here at the Shedd Aquarium we
have several different style water
features from small pond this features
two large dramatic entrance features
like this sustainable water features and
we're in the process of doing our third
one
our construction crew is having their
best year ever and it's because of stuff
like this getting out there showing
people what's possible on any type of a
scale this has been another aquascape
project showcase we hope to see you next
time